# Welcome to Week 2

## Last week, we learnt that secure communications happen through networks when both the sender and receiver speak in code.

The code should not be understandable without a key - or set of keys - to decrypt and translate the message.

In some ways, this is a little bit like two people who speak different languages having a conversation via an interpreter.  If you’re having a private conversation, you’d want to be able to trust your interpreter to translate what you have said accurately and not to pass on details of your conversation to anyone else.  

Imagine what could happen if you trust the wrong person. If someone untrustworthy is able to imitate this translator, it may be very difficult to tell. This kind of behaviour, in which someone (or something) untrustworthy imitates a translator to a speaker and/or a speaker to a translator, is sometimes called a ‘man in the middle attack.’

Quoting Sun Tzu in The Art of War: If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundred battles. If you know yourself but not the enemy, or every victory gained you will also suffer a defeat. If you know neither the enemy nor yourself, you will succumb in every battle. During this week we will get to know the network, our battle field. We will also learn the capabilities of the most threatening enemy to network protocols, the man-in-the-middle adversary.

In particular, we’re going to look at sniffing, snooping and Man-in-the-Middle(MitM) attack.

Good luck.

### Your task

Have you ever come across or read about a Man-in-the-Middle(MitM) attack? What happened and what were the consequences?
