# ARP spoofing

The Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) can also be hijacked to gain access to your network.

To understand who the ARP can be spooked, let's take a look at what it actually does. The ARP is responsible for mapping an IP address to the hardware address (called MAC) of the machine. 

The ARP creates a table which matches up these two addresses, called the ARP cache.
This table is used to detect conflicts between IP addresses on the same network, as each host is listed in it.

When a new node joins the network, It announces itself: 'Hey everyone, IP address 10.11.12.13 has [hardware address](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~./computing/networking/hardware_address.html) DD:EE:FF:DD:EE:FF.' If any other host in the network has the same IP address, the ARP will detect the conflict.  Of course, if an attacker's IP and hardware addresses are in the ARP cache, there's the potential that their machine will be taken for one of the network.

## How to spoof the ARP - Vikrant, can I ask you to verify the information below is correct?
Unfortunately, it possible for an attacker to send false ARP messages that intentionally misleads everyone in the network. 

The basic 'gameplan' is to overwhelm the system by sending out millions of fake addresses and hoping that one of them happens to already be on the ARP table. 

Let's break it down into steps to show you how it works in a bit more detail.  

|  | IP Address | Hardware Address |
| -------------| ------------|--------------|
| Attacker | 10.3 | YY:YY 
| Victim (Host) | 10.5 | AA:AA
| Network Router (gateway) | 10.1 | BB:BB
| Remote Machine | 20.20 | CC:CC

1. The attacker tells the victim, "Hey, AA:AA (the victim), the MAC address of 10.0.0.1 (that is, the attacker's IP address) is YY:YY".

2. They tell the router, "Hey, BB:BB, the MAC address of 10.0.0.5 is YY:YY". An attacker might send out a vast number of such messages.

3. The victim responds to this message by sending another message onto the remote machine.  Because the victim's ARP table already holds the MAC address of the router, it creates a frame for the attacker's hardware address (YY:YY).

4. The router forwards the message along and eventually the remote machine replies. The router delivers this reply to the victim, creating a frame for their attacker's IP address which also includes the victim's. 

5. This reply is also forwarded on to the attacker, via their [network interface controller](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_interface_controller) (NIC).  Oh dear, all those replies allows your attacker to recompile your ARP table at their end.  Your system won't be able to tell the difference.

This is also called ARP poisoning or ARP Man in The Middle. 

It won't work unless the first two steps are repeated frequently - maybe millions of times to keep the table updated with the misleading information. This will result in the unusual nynbke of ARP requests in the network and eventually make it easy to detect spoofing as it happens.

### MAC duplicating/spoofing

An attacker can configure their own NIC's MAC address as the same MAC address as their victim's. This is possible because the layers above data link layer don't care about multiple NIC's having same MAC address. In this case, the attacker will be able to receive/hear intercept their victim's frames.

ARP spoofing represents a genuine threat.  It will allow an attacker to intercept data frames on a network, allowing them to alter the network's traffic at their will.

### Your task
 Visit [Hacker's Arise](https://www.hackers-arise.com/single-post/2017/07/25/Man-the-Middle-MiTM-Attack-with-ARPspoofing) and follow the instructions to create an ARP Man-in-The-Middle (MiTM) attack using ARP spoofing.