# Weekly wrap up

Congratulations on completing the first course.

We started this course by looking at cryptography. You applied some ancient techniques for encoding and decoding information by sending confidential messages to each other via FutureLearn.  You then looked at how these techniques have advanved and can be applied to modern day computer network security.

At the beginning of the week, we quoted Sun Tzu saying taht if you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundred battles.  We began by getting to know ourselves.  That is, we looked at a little bit of the history of networking, the TCP/IP protocols and the network and transport layers.  

Then we got to know our enemy.  The most common type of cyber security attack is the 'man in the middle' attack. These attacks are essentially acts of fraud. They attempt to trick your system into believing you are communication with someone who you can trust.  A bit like an interpreter who passes on a message between two different langauges, if a hacker is untrustworthy they can eavesdrop, fail to pass on or change the data that you are attempting to send across your network.


Next week, we'll pick back up where we began.  Now that you have a little bit of background about how communications protocols work over the internet, we'll investigate protocols that are in place to ensure that your data remains secure and confidential.

We hope you have enjoyed the week.

### Your task

Find an example of a recent MitM attack. 

How did the attacker execute it?  What could have been done to prevent or mitigate it?

Let your fellow learners know in the comments section.
