## Now that you have an overview of the TCP/IP protocol suite, we're going to take a closer look at communications protocols located at each layer. Lets start with an Application layer. 

The Application layer deals with mainly the human interaction. In addition, It includes the implementation of software applications and related protocols. There are many application protocols in the TCP/IP protocol suite which handles the data transfer between hosts and communication between remote computers. Examples of application layer protocols are HTTP, SMTP, DHCP, DNS, SNMP, FTP, TFTP.

Lets take an example of student Bob and Professor Steve to understand it more precisely:

**Goal:** Bob wants to send a message to his Professor Steve.

As we already know how a message travels over the Internet, lets do a quick revision.

Bob will open a particular application such as messenger, type a message and click on send. As soon as Bob press enter, messenger application will convert this message to data using Application layer protocol at Bob's computer. Bob's application layer then sends this data to Bob's transport layer. Bob's transport layer will take responsibility of reliable delivery of this message to Professor Steve's transport layer. At the end, Professor steve's transport layer will deliver the received data to Professor steve's application layer.

In this examples, Bob's application layer will format the message as per certain standards such as ASCII or EBCDIC format. In addition, Bob's application layer will make sure how Professor Steve's application layer will see the message.

### What happens if Bob wants to send another message to his friend Alice simultaneously using the same application?
In this case, Bob's messenger application will create another session using its application layer protocol and manage it until Bob close the messenger window.

Here, we took an example of messenger application. Application layer protocols works in similar fashion with other applications such as email, file transfer, directory etc. 

We all know what web browser is. When we use web browser application, it uses application layer protocols such as HTTP and HTTPS. Lets see what these protocol does:

### HTTP (HyperText Transfer Protocol)
HTTP is that the set of rules for transferring files (text, graphic pictures, sound, video and different transmission files) between an internet server and a client browser over the Internet. Whenever you try to access any website on the Internet, this is the protocol comes to help you. HTTP is used to transfer Hypertext Markup Language (HTML) web contents.

### HTTPS (HyperText Transfer Protocol Secure)
HTTPS is the secure version of HTTP. It encrypts and decrypts the request from client to server and response from server to client. So that Man-in-the-Middle can not exploit the information. HTTPS uses SSL (Secure Socket Layer) that manages message transmission security across the Internet.
  

### Your task
Next time, when you pay money online using your credit/debit card details, make sure that your web browser application is using HTTPS application layer protocol. Why? How to check whether web browser application is using HTTPS or HTTP?