# Nmap - A Stealth Port Scanner

Ever thought how attackers can find out which ports are open on a computer/host? or how to find out which services are running on a computer without asking to network admin? Well. It is possible by using this handy tool called Nmap (Network Mapper). 

Nmap is the ideal tool for performing a simple network inventory or vulnerability assessment. By default, Nmap performs a SYN scan and can be quickly scan thousands of open, closed and filtered ports.

## Nmap examples

* **nmap -sP 10.0.0.0/24** : Ping scans the network, listing machines that respond to ping.

* **nmap -p 1-65535 -sV -sS -T4 target** : Full TCP port scan using with service version detection.

* **nmap -v -sS -A -T4 target** : Prints verbose output, runs stealth syn scan, T4 timing, OS and version detection + traceroute and scripts against target services.

* **nmap -v -sS -A -T5 target** : Prints verbose output, runs stealth syn scan, T5 timing, OS and version detection + traceroute and scripts against target services.

* **nmap -v -sV -O -sS -T5 target** : Prints verbose output, runs stealth syn scan, T5 timing, OS and version detection.

* **nmap -v -p 1-65535 -sV -O -sS -T4 target** : Prints verbose output, runs stealth syn scan, T4 timing, OS and version detection + full port range scan.

* **nmap -v -p 1-65535 -sV -O -sS -T5 target** : Prints verbose output, runs stealth syn scan, T5 timing, OS and version detection + full port range scan.


### Your task

Use Kali Linux as operating system, and play with the preinstalled tool Nmap: https://github.com/nmap/nmap. Try **man nmap** command and see what it display.