# Let's get started

## Welcome to SIT735 Communications Network Security

Computer networks has grown from a few hundreds nodes in the 70’s to billions of devices connected
to the internet nowadays. Such a massive interconnection is leading organisations and individuals to an
increasing dependency of computer systems. Data that was before in a drawer is nowadays in a connected
computer, making information rapidly and easily accessible. Computer networks, however, have proven
vulnerable to cyberattacks, whose scale and impact tend to increase with the size of the network.

## Unit overview

In this unit, we'll explore how to implement protocols to secure your communications network from attacks. Over the course of the unit, you will:

* Describe approaches to computer security including access control, identity verification and authentication in order to minimise cyber attacks on a system.
* Compare and contrast different types of cryptography including current cryptographic algorithms and their applications. 
* Apply principles of public key cryptography to achieve secure communication networks by using digital certificates and digital signatures in compliance with industry standards
* Justify the use of cryptographic schemes on networked infrastructures to prevent the misuse of technology.


## Course overview

The unit is made up of five courses, each of which take two weeks to complete.  Over the next two weeks, we're going to introduce you to the challenge of security over the internet.

Humanity has developed extremely sophisticated communication languages in the form of symbols, words and sounds, that together convey
meaningful information.  Computer networks, including the internat, are the fastest and most vast communication channel humanity has ever created.  It is, however, insecure.

Throughout the next fortnight, we'll develop the ability to send encrypted information through public or
insecure channels that only makes sense to a selected group of people. 

In particular, by the end of the fortnight you will be able to:

* Encrypt and decrypt messages
* Evaluate common methods of cryptography
* Investigate high risk threats to computer networks


## Meet the team

Your Lead Educator is Dr Rolando Trujillo Rasua from Deakin's School of Information Technology.

Rolando is (50 word biography on Rolando).

You will also be support by Dr Vikrant Patel, who is a specialist in communications network security.

## Key learning resources

The [course map](#) outlines the activities and steps for the next two weeks.

The [unit guide](#) gives a full overview of all activities, steps and assignments, across the the five courses.

This [Deakin University Library reference list](#) gives you access to all the course readings.

## Your task

Once you've watched Rolando in the video, leave a comment about where you have come from and what you are most looking forward to learning about over the next two weeks and the course of the unit.




