# Assessment tasks

## There are three assessment tasks throughout this unit.

Let's take a look at each of them in turn.

## Assessment task one - online quizzes

The objective of this task is to assess your knowledge of different IT security models and technologies related to computer networks security. 

You'll be given an online quiz to complete at the end of each week, which will test that you have read and understood the content of the course.

Each quiz will be worth 1% of your mark towards the unit for a total of 10% of your final grade.

### Assessment task two - technical report

This assessment requires the you to develop the ability to explain approaches to computer security including access control, identity verification and authentication in order to minimise the cyber attacks on a system. 

You will need to to investigate and choose the appropriate security tools to improve the security of a given system and write a technical report. You will be assessed on your ability to collect security information based on a real world scenario, analyse the gathered information and propose feasible and justifiable solutions.

You will then need to make an online presentation on your solutions.

The report will be 1500 words in length, and worth 20% of the total marks for the unit.  The presentation will go for no longer than 10 minutes in duration, and is worth 10% of your total marks.

## Assessment task three - exam

Your final assessment task is an exam.  The exam will assess and validate your knowledge of information technology security. You must demonstrate an ability to relate, analyse and respond to questions around IT security  concepts and applications under examination conditions.

It's worth 60% of your total marks.

## Your task

What can you do right now, and throughout the course, to prepare yourself to do well in your assessment?
