Your second assessment allows you to apply approaches to computer security including access control, identity verification and authentication in order to minimize cyber-attacks on a system. 

In this step, we'll outline some of the details of the task.

### Assessment details

| Assessment task two | Technical report | Live online presentation |
|--|--|-- |
| Due date | 20<sup>th</sup> August, 2018, no later than 23.59 AEST. |  To be arranged with teaching staff, no later than August 31<sup>st</sup> |
| Weighting (% of total mark) | 30% |10% |
| Word count | 2,000 words | 10 minutes |

### Technical report

The purpose of this assessment task is to apply approaches to computer security to minimise and prevent cyber-attacks on your system.

It's a scenario based task.  You will need to develop a technical report that will demonstrate your ability to improve the communications network security of an organisation in response to the 2011 Comodo certificate fraud attacks.  You will need to investigate the hack and demonstrate that you can develop a viable solution that your organisation could use to protect itself for similar attacks in future.

To develop the report, you will need to first decide on the characteristics of the organisation whose communications network security you will be improving.

You may choose from:

* a small to medium enterprise (employing up to 100 people) who deals with personal information
* a contractor who is responsible for setting up and maintaining communications networks for multiple small businesses
* a reseller of certificates from a certificate authority.

### Live online presentation

Following the development of the report, you will deliver a live, online presentation.  You should prepare a presentation with accompanying visual materials.

The presentation must cover:

* the type of organisation you chose to protect
* how you can secure that organisation's communication network's from attacks that are similar to the Comodo hack
* your recommendations to the company

At the conclusion of your ten minute presentation, your assessors will ask you a series of questions to clarify your solution and recommends and to ensure you truly understand them.  Plagiarism and collusion will not be tolerated under any circumstances.  

### The scenario

As you’ll learn throughout the week, three Certificate Authorities play a central role in maintaining the security of communications networks across the entire world.   Their role is absolutely critical in maintaining the integrity and authenticity of almost all sensitive communications that occur online.  For the system to work, we need to be able to trust them without question.

Comodo, Symantec and GoDaddy issue over three quarters of the digital certificates that we use to verify that communications really are from who we think they are and that their message hasn’t been tampered with.  Comodo is the largest issuer of certificates, with 38.4% of market share in 2017.

However, in 2011 Comodo were hacked.  If the accounts are true, they were hacked by just one person, working alone and who had never been employed by the company.  This single hacker was able to issue fraudulent certificates that, theoretically speaking, could be used to intercept and interfere with confidential information without the sender or receiver ever knowing that it had happened.    

It’s your role to find out how the hacker managed this and to protect your organisation from falling victim to a similar attack.

Much of the following two weeks will be dedicated to building an understanding why the Comodo hacks presented such a serious issue to communications network security.  Keep it in mind as you read.

### Your task

Read through the detailed assessment instructions on the [program page - INSERT LINK HERE](#).  

If you have any questions about the task or the rubric, ask it here.  Like questions that are similar to yours to bring it to your educator's attention.
